
**# Soanrqube intro**

What if quality of your code is maintained very high throughout the lifecycle as well as maintenance of project, sonarqube does that and it supports continuous code inspection and analysis.

- it integrates with IDE - Eclipse, Intellij, Visual Studio Code etc.  via sonarLint
- Supports more than 25+ languages 


**Architecture:** 

SonarQube has 3 major components: 
**- Scanner**
  - standalone scanner 
  - supports 25+ languages
  - it basically scans user code based on extension and sends results to server
  - integrate with various build tools like maven, ant, gradle etc. and generate reports and sends reports to server. 
  - Integrates and gets triggered with CI Servers like Jenkins
**- Server** 
 - it's heart of sonarqube 
 -  it has 3 parts: webserver, search server, compute engine 
 - **compute engine** takes report from scanner, digest them and analyze them  and stores results in the database.
                     - takes care of procesing code analysis report
                     - saving report to database 
 - **search server** - basically helps with retrieving results from database faster and display it on screen or provide report to end user. 
                     - its powered by elastic search
 - **web server** provides web UI to developer, manager to browse through the report and provide detailed information on vulnerability, code smells etc. 
                 - facilitates configuration of sonarqube isntance. 

**- Database** 
  - it will store results 
  - built in db for testing purpose
  - in prod external database will be used. viz postgres, oracle, mysql 
  - stores quality snapshots views, gateways etc. 
  

**Plugins**
Comes with multiple builtin plugins for ◦ Language analysis
◦ SCM (Source Code Management) integration
◦ Authentication and Authorization integration
◦ Governance and external quality tools integration
◦ Custom plugins as per organization requirement 
 
  
  
 

