
Code quality? 

Lets understand what is code quality and its role being played in any developmenmt or maintainence project. 

- In any project code quality is importantn in terms of maintainibility of code and a quick way to do the bug fixing. 

-  Every language has got some rules and guidelines put in for how a code would look like. 
example:  how many number of conditions are put in , how many number of rules and regulations have been put in, breaching that particular rule will degrade the quality of code. 

- it gives metrics on code quality and standards, how much effort is required in fixing those bugs and vulnerabilities etc. 

- many tools are available to cehck  quality of code - Apache Yetus, Facebook infer, Soanrqube, muse dev etc. 
- Normally, Once code is checked in to SCM and through CI tools configured, buid is automatically triggered,and prodcut archive is produced and deployed. But with these quality tools integrated, it helps running QA builds which will provide report of your code quality and in case it doesn't meet defined standard it will fail it and ask developers to fix it. 

- many of these tools integrates with development IDE like IntelliJ , VS , Eclipse, etc. So as and when code is getting fixed and developed, it will provide upfront insides and code qualirty is maintainend at higest level 


Seven Axis of Quality defined as follows: 
 Potential bugs: how many bugs are contained in code 
 Coding rules: Whethere code is adhering to defined set of rules. 
 Tests:  Whethere all functions are properly tested via test coverage results
 Duplications: whethere there are duplications in code. 
 Comments: proper comments are included to make the code more understandable. 
 Architecture and design : some languages even can help with architecture and design of code. 
 Complexity : howe much amount of complexity has been put in code. 


